---
layout: post
title: a post with code
date: 2015-07-15 15:09:00
description: an example of a blog post with some code
tags: formatting code
categories: sample-posts
featured: true
---

As a side-project during the summer, I decided to try recreating the Nintendo Entertainment System on FPGA hardware!
This is mainly inspired by Analogue's own escapades (Gameboy, SNES, Sega Genesis, etc.), wherein their replicas
have been able to have crazy good performance (coupled with other pretty neat features)! 

Dividing the project into two portions seemed the most fit, with the first part involving software emulation and
the second having to do with hardware. Why did I do this? Well, developing the hardware implementation will certainly require an in-depth understanding of the system's architecture, particularities, and compatibility with external devices. To put it plainly, I knew nothing of this, and creating an emulator (using Rust in this case!) seemed like a great way to become much more familiar with everything. Plus, debugging in software always ends up being less painful than with hardware.

Software Emulation:

The first step before beginning any sort of software project is to pick what tools will be used! In this case, I really just had to choose which language I wanted to use. I ended up going with Rust because of its speed, large amount of libraries, and just general familiarity. Moreover, after utilizing it to build a compiler this past semester, I wanted to do more cool stuff with the language.

So, with the language in mind, I started looking at the actual NES hardware spec. 


````markdown
```c++
code code code
```
````

```c++
int main(int argc, char const \*argv[])
{
    string myString;

    cout << "input a string: ";
    getline(cin, myString);
    int length = myString.length();

    char charArray = new char * [length];

    charArray = myString;
    for(int i = 0; i < length; ++i){
        cout << charArray[i] << " ";
    }

    return 0;
}
```

For displaying code in a list item, you have to be aware of the indentation, as stated in [this FAQ](https://github.com/planetjekyll/quickrefs/blob/master/FAQ.md#q-how-can-i-get-backtick-fenced-code-blocks-eg--working-inside-lists-with-kramdown). You must indent your code by **(3 \* bullet_indent_level)** spaces. This is because kramdown (the markdown engine used by Jekyll) indentation for the code block in lists is determined by the column number of the first non-space character after the list item marker. For example:

````markdown
1. We can put fenced code blocks inside nested bullets, too.

   1. Like this:

      ```c
      printf("Hello, World!");
      ```

   2. The key is to indent your fenced block in the same line as the first character of the line.
````

Which displays:

1. We can put fenced code blocks inside nested bullets, too.

   1. Like this:

      ```c
      printf("Hello, World!");
      ```

   2. The key is to indent your fenced block in the same line as the first character of the line.

By default, it does not display line numbers. If you want to display line numbers for every code block, you can set `kramdown.syntax_highlighter_opts.block.line_numbers` to true in your `_config.yml` file.

If you want to display line numbers for a specific code block, all you have to do is wrap your code in a liquid tag:

{% raw %}
{% highlight c++ linenos %} <br/> code code code <br/> {% endhighlight %}
{% endraw %}

The keyword `linenos` triggers display of line numbers.
Produces something like this:

{% highlight c++ linenos %}

int main(int argc, char const \*argv[])
{
string myString;

    cout << "input a string: ";
    getline(cin, myString);
    int length = myString.length();

    char charArray = new char * [length];

    charArray = myString;
    for(int i = 0; i < length; ++i){
        cout << charArray[i] << " ";
    }

    return 0;

}

{% endhighlight %}
